All right guys.
Now we're going to look at some tags that have to do with topography some of the stuff we already looked
at like.
Like the h1 tag which is a heading tag.
We'll look at some of the other headings hand also paragraph and the strong tag and stuff like that.
So let's create a new file here called 0 4 underscore topography dot aged him.
I'm going to show you some other stuff as well some little tips and tricks when it comes to V.S. code.
So let's put in our boilerplate which is we'll do exclamation tab and that puts in all of our R structure
here.
And for the title it's changed this will just say like headings paragraphs topography.
OK.
And then we're gonna go down to the body here and I'm going to put a comment.
Now if you want to just put a comment like an empty comment you can just do control and then the question
mark or the forward slash key and that will put an empty comment it might be camp command and that key
on a Mac.
I'm not sure because on my Mac I actually switch the control and the command keys.
So when I say control it might it might be command on a Mac.
I'm not sure.
So let's go ahead and just put it in headings here and another tab if you want to go to the next line
obviously you can go to the end here and you can hit enter.
But if you're in the middle here and you hit enter it'll do that.
If you want to have a clear new line and you're in the middle you can hold down control or again might
be command and then enter and it'll create a new line no matter where you are here.
It'll create a new line if you hold down control.
OK.
So keep that in mind and I'm gonna give you these little tips throughout the course because I think
that it really helps you write your code in a more efficient way and in a much faster way.
All right.
So let's let's put some headings in here so H1.
I'm just gonna say heading one and hold control and enter to go to the next line to h to tab heading
to s h three
heading for what else we had heading 5 it goes up to 6.
So each six headings six.
All right.
So let's save this and let's open this up with the live server I might have to close some of your other
tabs and this is what it's going to look like.
So this is H1.
It's going to be the largest.
And then it goes smaller and smaller and then h six is going to be the smallest.
Now you can change the font size or CSX.
You can do whatever you want through CSX but by default each one is going to be the largest.
Now a little tip or some advice that I would give is is you usually only want to have an H 1 H one per
page because the search engines actually look at this and you want to have like you want to describe
whatever the content is for instance if it's a blog post you want to have your your blog post title
in the H1.
OK.
And you can have more.
I mean you can have multiple H ones but it's good practice to just have one per page.
And then these other ones you can have as many as as you want.
Say you have a role of blog posts.
Maybe you have an h three for each title.
OK.
So I mean it's not you know mandatory but I would suggest using one H1 per page if possible.
So those are headings.
Let's go ahead and look at paragraphs.
We've already done this but it's just a p tag.
Now I'm going to give you another tip here with Emmett.
We can generate some dummy text if you need just some tax to kind of fill.
You know as a place holder you can do Lorem L O R E M and then hit tab and it'll give you a paragraph
of dummy text or filler text and if you want to specify a certain number of words like let's say we
want a 10 word sentence or paragraph we could do Lorem 10 tab and it'll give us 10 words.
OK.
We could even do like Lorem 500 and we'll give us 500 words I'm gonna do let's say one hundred and just
generate some tax and if I save this and we go and we take a look you'll see that we have this paragraph
of 100 words now inside the paragraph I'm gonna add we'll just go anywhere it doesn't really matter
and I'm gonna put in a strong tag.
Okay.
Now with this code once they put the beginning tag in it adds the ending one automatically so I'm just
going to just cut that out and put that over here and then anything that's within here is within the
strong tag.
So let's save this and go back and notice that it's bolded.
OK.
So by default it will be bold but with CSX you could change the styling of this strong tag to be a different
color or to be bigger a bigger font whatever you want to do with it.
But it's it's made to make it stand out.
And at the same time you have the emphasis tag which is the E M So let's say E and I'm going to just
put the ending tag let's say down here and if we save that we take a look by default it's going to be
a italic.
It's actually this right here.
OK.
You can see that the text is italic which again you can change within CSX.
And we're going to get into CSX in the next section.
So that's strong and emphasis.
We also have the line break which I showed you in one of the slides.
It's one of these self closing tags so let's say we want a space right here without adding a new paragraph.
If I just do this and save it's not going to reflect that in the browser.
OK.
This is only in the ED I can put a million spaces here and save and it doesn't show in the browser to
actually have a line break without adding a new paragraph you would add in a bizarre tag.
So I'm going to go right here and put in a b r tag.
So what that's going to do is it's going to knock this on to the next line in the browser as you can
see right here.
If I wanted it to go down again I could add in another bar tag I'm just going to put a comment here.
OK.
So if we have two line breaks you'll see that it pushes it down again and I can push it down as much
as I want.
And since it's a self closing tag you could either do this format or you could do that.
So both of these are going to work as you can see I tend to use this just the HDMI five but sometimes
I use a visual studio code extension called prettier which will auto format your code and it adds a
slash automatically.
So if you watch some of my other videos and I have the slash that's because I'm using prettier and I
might introduce that extension to you guys later.
Now in addition to the bar tab we have an H.R. tag which is a horizontal rule.
I'm actually going to put that see we'll go right here and it's a horizontal rule and what this does.
The H.R. tag is it.
It does a line break but it also creates an actual line.
So if we check this so you can see it put a line across the screen.
OK so that's a horizontal rule.
Now if you've studied each tool before especially if it was a while ago before age 2 0 5 you might have
seen tags like the bold tag.
So if we put a B here you might have scenes to stuff like this.
So if we actually take a look at this in Chrome you'll see that it actually is bold but there's the
bold tag along with the eye tag for italics and stuff like that that you tag for underline it's all
been deprecated because h Tim L. is not meant for styling and this strong tag replace the bull tag because
the strong tag is a semantic tag it doesn't necessarily mean it's bold it just means that it should
stand out in some way but we leave it up to the C to to say what that way is even though it builds by
default and that's kind of hard to understand.
It did confuse me in the beginning when each team of five came out but just know that we don't really
use this anymore or the you or I think there was asked for strike through although we do have a semantic
tag for deleted text which does by default at a strike through so let's say we do DL and we're going
to wrap this text right here.
So this is actually a semantic tag so we'll save this and take a look and notice that it does add a
strike through ok but it doesn't necessarily mean that it has to be strike through we can change that
in the CSX if we want maybe we want it to be highlighted with a yellow background or something like
that it doesn't necessarily mean strike through like the s tag did they took that out of each team L5
or deprecated it.
All right.
So in the next video we're going to take a look at links hyperlinks and we're going to also look at
embedding images into a web page.